## Introduction

The Nobel Committee\'s Report of 2016\'s Nobel Prize in chemistry\[3\]
ends, \"we are at the dawn of a new industrial revolution of the
twenty-first century, and the future will show how molecular machinery
can become an integral part of our lives. The advances made have also
led to the first steps towards creating truly programmable machines, and
it can be envisaged that molecular robotics will be one of the next
major scientific areas.\"

There have been many advancements in the area of Nanotechnology and
Biotechnology since then, leading to improvements in its Internet of
Things (IOT) applications, New Ideas shift the horizons of the
technology everyday.

One of the major reasons for quick progress and study in this field is
the pre-existing natural framework of Bio-NanoThings (BNTs), Which
offers a solid foundation for modelling artificial Nanonetworks composed
of Nanomachines. Nanomachines are independently operating fully-featured
devices theoretically capable of all tasks their Macro-Scale
counterparts are, such as data-storage, sensing and actuation. However,
at such a small scale, individual devices(Nodes) provide us with scarce
capabilities, leading to the establishment of Nanonetworks.\[2\] Several
nanonetworks are naturally occurring all of which have their own
complexity and applications in Internet of Bio-NanoThings (IoBNT), and
are reviewed in this paper. The ones proven to be useful for IoBNT
applications are:

-   Mammalian Nervous systems \[1\]\[4\]
-   Bacterial Networks \[7\]\[8\]\[11\]\[13\]\[14\]
-   Plant and Fungal Networks

For the creation of any network, as with a Nanonetwork, a few
requirements must be met, Namely: Communication between Individual
Nodes, and Storage of Energy. In a biological environment, we must also
make sure of compatibility with pre-existing biological systems. To
fulfill the technical challenges some of the solutions proposed are:

1.  **Communication and Interfacing Methods**

Developing better communication methods is one of the foremost technical
challenges to be overcome, as conventional communication methods like
Electromagnetic Transmission cannot be used at the Nano-Scale due to the
size and energy constraints. The following technologies have emerged as
the leading techniques for communication in nanonetworks.

-   Molecular communication: it is already used by Natural BNT in an
    incredibly Energy Efficient Manner\[5\]\[9\]\[15\]
-   High Frequency EM based methods: While conventional EM methods are
    not possible at the Nano-Scale, Graphene-Based antennas allow us to
    use the terahertz bands, proving promising for the high operating
    frequencies of BNTs
-   Acoustic Communication: Ultrasonic Communication has been considered
    because of its advantages over its RF counterparts inside a fluidic
    environment like the human body.
-   Optical based methods: Förster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) is
    non-radiative, high-rate energy transfer between fluorescent
    molecules, which promises a High rate of energy transfer in the
    order of Mbps.
-   There are various other techniques as in Redox, Optogenetics and
    Fluorescence based techniques.

1.  **Energy Issues**

Efficient supply, storage, and usage of energy is another necessary
challenge to overcome for the realization of IoBNT as a practical
technology. While living cells have evolved over Billions of years to
use the biochemical energy in the most efficient way possible,
artificial systems are missing a metabolism system for their energy
management. Thus, following methods are discussed as a solution:

1.  Energy Harvesting:

    -   Harvesting from various Intrabody vibrations,
    -   Ambient RF EM waves,
    -   Active Wireless Power Transfer

2.  Energy Storage

    -   Nano-Scale Lithium Batteries
    -   Micro-super capacitors
    -   Conducting Polymers like PE-DOT/PSS and various polymer
        heterostructures.\[6\]

3.  **Biocompatibility** concerns with the materials used in the
    physical architecture of BNTs, the energy solutions as well as the
    interfacing process. However it remains an unsolved issue as there
    is no standardised procedure for testing Biocompatibility yet.

We provide a comprehensive review of the these problems in a later
section, along with a brief overview of the previously existing
framework of BNTs. However, along with the technical challenges there
are many social challenges to overcome which are also discussed.

## Communication

The goal of a communication system is to transfer information across
space and time. To achieve this, a signal needs to be generated by a
transmitter in accordance to the information that is intended to be
transferred to a receiver. This signal then propagates to a receiver,
where the intended information is decoded from the received signal.
Therefore, any communication system can be broken down into three major
components. The Transmitter, the receiver, and the channel. On December
29, 1959, Richard Feynman gave a lecture at American Physical Society
meeting in Caltech titled, "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom"
\[16\]; In which he asked, How Much can we shrink a communication
system? While we haven\'t found the lower limit for it yet, we do have
technologies which can work at the nano scale. The reason why we even
need new methods for communication is that the conventional methods,
i.e. Electromagnetic(EM) Communication cannot be used due to a large
amount of noise being generated at the scale, a large energy requirement
not suitable for the nano devices, and the miniaturized antennas being
highly inefficient and hard to design. \[17\]\[18\] The Three methods
discussed in this papers are used in contemporary nanotech.

1.  **Molecular Communication Framework**:

Molecular Communication is a Biomimetic technology, inspired from
Communication in bacteria using chemical signals at Nano and Micro-scale
and in the social-insect populations at Macro-Scales using Pheromones;
Since it a very new technology, it does not benefit from the preexisting
theory of communication. However, it is very bio-compatible for our
applications, It also has better Energy Efficiency and Very Low Heat
Dissipation in comparison to EM based communication methods. MC is also
employed in Humans in neurotransmitters, they use free diffusion
(Passive Transport) to communicate over short range. Inside cells, Motor
Proteins Actively Transport cargo over mid-range.

In MC, small particles called information particles act as chemical
signals conveying the information. The Channel for communication is any
environment in which the particles can freely propagate. Information
particles are typically a few nanometers to a few micrometers in size.
These could be biological compounds, such as proteins, or synthetic
compounds, such as gold nano particles or any mixture of the two. The
structure and size of these information particles affects how they
propagate in the environment; For Example, Increasing the particle size
may change the diffusion coefficient, which changes the diffusion
process. Along with that, to make the MC more reliable Information
particles need to be chemically robust against the environmental noise.
The particles may also degrade over time. Along with the channel for
communication, There needs to be a transmitter and a receiver. As for
the transmitter- it should contain the following components

-   Power Source - It may contain the power source, or harvest power
    from the environment
-   Processing Unit - It may operate chemically, electrically, or
    through other means.
-   Information Particle Generator/Container
-   Information Particle release mechanism

After the Information Particles are generated, there needs to be some
mechanism to get the particles to the receiver. This can be diffusion
based, flow based, or an engineered solution using Molecular motors.
some of these are discussed in the following section.

1.  **Free Diffusion:** Also known as Brownian motion, refers to the
    random motion of a particle as it collides with other molecules in
    its vicinity. Through this random motion. The information particles
    can propagate from the transmitter to the receiver by utilizing the
    thermal energy of the channel. This can be accurately modeled
    through a Monte-Carlo simulation \[20\].
2.  **Diffusion with First Hitting:** Since MC creates a lot of noise in
    the channel environment, a lot of Information Particles may hit the
    receiver at the same time, causing a sort of race-condition. To
    prevent this, in Nature, most receptors remove the information
    molecules from the environment through various means \[21\]. Another
    way is to make sure that each signal contributes to the receiver
    only once.
3.  **Flow Assisted Propagation:** While Diffusion is great, it has the
    disadvantage of being incredibly slow. One of the ways to increase
    it\'s speed is to introduce flow into the environment. The most
    effective way would be, from the transmitter to the receiver. An
    Example of all three combined in the human body is when certain
    organs secrete hormones that propagate using the blood-flow and
    diffuse into other, more distant parts of the body.
4.  **Molecular Motors:** Another way of Propagation is to transport the
    Information Particles actively using molecular motors, over
    microtubules. They\'re Naturally Occurring in cytoskeletons found
    throughout the cytoplasm, involved in maintaining the structure of
    the cell and providing platforms for a number of intracellular
    processes.

  **Propagation Scheme**         **Method**           **Information Carrier**   **Energy Requirement**
  ------------------------------ -------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------
  Free Diffusion                 Diffusion            Molecules                 0
  Diffusion with First Hitting   Diffusion            Molecules                 0
  Flow Assisted Diffusion        Diffusion + Flow     Molecules                 for Flow
  Motor Protein over MT          Motor Protein        Vesicle                   1 ATP for 8 nm
  MT over Motor Protein          Motor Protein        Vesicle                   1 ATP for 8 nm
  Bacteria Assisted              Bacteria Motility    Bacteria                  for Bacteria Motility
  Gap Junction                   Diffusion + Gates    Molecule                  for Triggering Gates
  Neurochemical                  Diffusion + Enzyme   Molecule                  0

Table 1: A Comparision of Various Methods of Propagation\[15\]
